docs/why/edition.md, before:

---
id: edition
title: Canarytrace Edition
sidebar_label: Canarytrace Edition
custom_edit_url: false
description: About Canarytrace Edition
keywords:
  - Canarytrace
  - Smoke
  - Pro
  - Professional
---

> ### What you’ll learn
- What is different betwen Canarytrace Professional and Canarytrace Smoke Pro


## Canarytrace Smoke Pro
Features and parts of documentation has badge <a href="/docs/why/edition#canarytrace-smoke-pro"><span class="canaryBadge">Smoke Pro</span></a>

Canarytrace Smoke Pro is maintenance free stack for test, measure and monitor web application.


## Canarytrace Professional 
Features and parts of documentation has badge <a href="/docs/why/edition#canarytrace-professional"><span class="canaryBadge">Professional</span></a>



Starting Canarytrace is very easy, monitoring and measurement starts in a few minutes 👏🏻 Please [contact us](/docs/support/contactus) for demo.

---

- Do you find mistake or have any questions? Please [create issue](https://github.com/canarytrace/documentation/issues/new/choose), thanks 👍
- Have more questions? [Contact us](/docs/support/contactus).

Commit message:

docs/why/edition.md: added Canarytrace Smoke

docs/why/edition.md, after:

---
id: edition
title: Canarytrace Edition
sidebar_label: Canarytrace Edition
custom_edit_url: false
description: About Canarytrace Edition
keywords:
  - Canarytrace
  - Smoke
  - Pro
  - Professional
---

> ### What you’ll learn
- What is different betwen Canarytrace Professional and Canarytrace Smoke Pro


## Canarytrace Smoke 

---

Canarytrace Smoke is a free edition and you can use it for study of web performance testing

- [How to start with Canarytrace](/docs/canary/start)
- [How to get deployment script](/docs/guides/kubernetes#deploy-canarytrace-smoke)



## Canarytrace Smoke Pro

---

Canarytrace Smoke Pro is maintenance free stack for test, measure and monitor web application.
- [Features overview](/docs/features/overview)
- [How to get a docker image](/docs/features/docker#canarytrace-smoke-pro)
- [How to get a deployment scripts](/docs/guides/kubernetes#how-to-get-a-deployment-scripts)
- Features and parts of documentation has badge <a href="/docs/why/edition#canarytrace-smoke-pro"><span class="canaryBadge">Smoke Pro</span></a>


## Canarytrace Professional 

---

Canarytrace Professional is a Plug’n'Play stack for testing and monitoring your web application from user perspective.

- [Features overview](/docs/features/overview)
- [How to get a docker image](/docs/features/docker#canarytrace-professional)
- [How to get a deployment scripts](/docs/guides/kubernetes#how-to-get-a-deployment-scripts)
- Features and parts of documentation has badge <a href="/docs/why/edition#canarytrace-professional"><span class="canaryBadge">Professional</span></a>

---

- Do you find mistake or have any questions? Please [create issue](https://github.com/canarytrace/documentation/issues/new/choose), thanks 👍
- Have more questions? [Contact us](/docs/support/contactus).
