docs/listener/agent.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
description: Listener is next tool in Canarytrace toolset for analyzing data from Canarytrace RUM and Canarytrace Synthetic
title: Listener Agent
tags:
  - Listener
  - Listener Agent
---

# Listener Agent

The Listener Agent is a Dockerized component that evaluates data from Canarytrace [RUM](../rum/overview) and Canarytrace Synthetic, which are stored in Elasticsearch.

The Listener Agent works in phases:

1. First phase, internal checks: The Listener Agent contains built-in internal checks which i verify that Canarytrace is functioning correctly, that Elasticsearch is available, and that it's possible to store data in Elasticsearch.

2. Second phase, rule checking: The Listener Agent contains built-in rules, like a checklist for the quality of the web application. The Listener Agent checks stored data against these rules very frequently. Thanks to these rules, you do not need know how the web application works properly.

3. Third phase, reporting: All information about the work of the Listener Agent and violations of rules are stored in an Elasticsearch index called "events", and notifications are sent through reporters. This phase also includes bug watchers and creates an overview.

import LicenseInfo from '../../src/components/LicenseInfo';

<LicenseInfo app="Canarytrace Listener" />


## Docker image

The Listener Agent is distributed as a [Docker](https://quay.io/repository/canarytrace/listener-agent?tab=tags) image and we recommend running it in a Kubernetes cluster.


:::tip Please always use a latest Docker image
- List of Docker image tags https://quay.io/repository/canarytrace/listener-agent?tab=tags
:::

The [Docker](https://quay.io/repository/canarytrace/listener-agent?tab=tags) image contains not only the Listener engine itself but also built-in rules and the necessary Kubernetes deployment objects.

Upon launching the Docker image with the Listener Agent, the creation of service indices in Elasticsearch happens automatically, followed by the start of individual phases. Once the final phase ends, the Docker image stops and restarts. Thanks to this, the Listener Agent evaluates current data from Canarytrace RUM and Canarytrace Synthetic.

For optimal operation, it's necessary to run the Listener Agent in a Kubernetes cluster. More information can be found in the [Kubernetes](#kubernetes) section.


## Kubernetes

To run the Listener Agent, you need a Kubernetes deployment that includes the Docker image, resources, configurations, and additional parameters. We provide a deployment that you can use as is or modify to your preferences.

### Requirements


### Deployment

All deployment objects necessary for running the RUM Server are packaged and distributed inside the Docker image. This includes any required configuration files, scripts, and dependencies needed for the deployment process.

#### Download the deployments scripts from the Docker image

```bash title="Download deployments scripts from docker image"
docker run --rm -it --entrypoint /bin/mv -v $(pwd):/k8s quay.io/canarytrace/listener-agent:1.42 /opt/canary-listener/k8s/ /k8s/
```

```bash title="Print directory k8s"
ls -lah k8s 
-rw-r--r--@ 1 rdpanek  staff   788B 31 pro  2022 config-custom-rules.yaml
-rw-r--r--@ 1 rdpanek  staff   9,8K 31 pro  2022 config-internal-rules.yaml
-rw-r--r--@ 1 rdpanek  staff   4,7K 31 pro  2022 config-rum-rules.yaml
-rw-r--r--@ 1 rdpanek  staff   3,9K 31 pro  2022 deployment.yaml
-rw-r--r--@ 1 rdpanek  staff   357B 31 pro  2022 secret.yml
```

- `k8s/config-rum-rules.yaml` - contains configuration of rules for [Canarytrace RUM](../rum/rumClient), more information in the [Rules](#rules) section.
- `k8s/config-internal-rules.yaml` - contains configuration of internal rules for Canarytrace Synthetic, more information in the [Rules](#rules) section.
- `k8s/config-custom-rules.yaml` - contains configuration of your custom business rules. More information in the [Rules](#rules) section.
- `k8s/secret.yaml` - contains Listener configuration, more information in the [Configuration](#configuration) section.
- `k8s/listener.yaml` - contains deployment of Listener Agent, more information in the [Configuration](#configuration) section.

Before deploying the Listener Agent to your Kubernetes cluster, please:
- update the `secret.yaml` and `listener.yaml` files and their configurations.
- additionally, you may choose to edit the rules in one or more of these files:" `k8s/config-custom-rules.yaml`, `k8s/config-internal-rules.yaml`, and `k8s/config-rum-rules.yaml`. Learn more about the syntax of the rules in the [Rules](#rules) section.

:::tip
Configuration files with rules are in the YAML format. You don't need to edit these files or values if the default configuration meets your requirements.
:::


Deploy these objects to Kubernetes in this order:

1. `k8s/secret.yaml`
2. `k8s/config-custom-rules.yaml`
3. `k8s/config-internal-rules.yaml`
4. `k8s/config-rum-rules.yaml`
5. `k8s/deployment.yaml`

All Kubernetes objects can be deployed using the `kubectl -n` command, followed by the name of the namespace and the `create` option. For example, to deploy a `secret.yaml` file, you would use the command `kubectl -n canarytrace create -f secret.yaml`.

### Check the deployment

Please check, that the Canarytrace Listerer Agent is deployed and running.

Secrects contains configuration of Listener Agent such as connection to Elasticsearch, Slack webhook, etc. More information in the [Configuration](#configuration) section.
```bash title="Check Secrects"
kubectl -n canarytrace get secrets

// result
NAME                               TYPE                                  DATA   AGE
listener-agent-secret              Opaque                                10     451d
```


ConfigMaps contains configuration of rules for [Canarytrace RUM](../rum/rumClient), more information in the [Rules](#rules) section.
```bash title="Check ConfigMaps"
kubectl -n canarytrace get configmaps  
NAME                            DATA   AGE
listener-agent-custom-rules     1      213d
listener-agent-internal-rules   1      213d
listener-agent-rum-rules        1      213d
```

The CronJob configuration includes settings for the Listener Agent, such as the version of the Docker image and Kubernetes deployment settings, etc. More information can be found in the [Configuration](#configuration) section.
Thanks to [CronJob](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs/), the Listener Agent starts every 10 minutes to check new data from Canarytrace RUM and Canarytrace Synthetic. The ten-minute interval is a default value, which can be modified in the `k8s/deployment.yaml` file.
```bash title="Check CronJobs"
kubectl -n canarytrace get cronjob   
NAME                          SCHEDULE       SUSPEND   ACTIVE   LAST SCHEDULE   AGE
listener-agent                */10 * * * *   False     0        6m15s           199d
```

Pods run the Listener Agent instances. Every 10 minutes, the CronJob creates a [Pod](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod/) with the Listener Agent.
But in this example, you see three Pods of the Listener Agent. This means that you're seeing the three most recent instances of the Listener Agent. Therefore, the latest run was 7 minutes ago, the previous run was 17 minutes ago and the first run was 26 minutes ago. 

You can read logs from the three most recent instances of the Listener Agent. More information can be found in the [Log](#log) section.
```bash title="Check Pods"
kubectl -n canarytrace get pods   
NAME                                         READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
listener-agent-28161260-grp2f                0/1     Completed   0          27m
listener-agent-28161270-84pwc                0/1     Completed   0          17m
listener-agent-28161280-2d6df                0/1     Completed   0          7m21s
```

In other cases, you may see a state of pods where one of them has the STATUS `Running`. This means that the Listener Agent is currently executing.
```bash title="Check Pods with running the Listener Agent"
NAME                                         READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
listener-agent-28161400-f4sjv                0/1     Completed   0          30m
listener-agent-28161410-8tnvn                0/1     Completed   0          20m
listener-agent-28161420-l94gv                0/1     Completed   0          10m
listener-agent-28161430-bnrkl                1/1     Running     0          2s
```

### Log

You can access the log of the Listener Agent from the three most recent instances. To retrieve these logs, you'll need to know the name of the Pod. You can determine the Pod's name from the previous step.


With this Kubernetes command `logs`, you will be able to see the log.
```bash title="Get logs"
kubectl -n canarytrace logs listener-agent-28161280-2d6df
```

The first phase is the initiation of internal checks. The Listener Agent examines the health of Elasticsearch, Canarytrace RUM, and Canarytrace Synthetic.

The internal checks are the most important phase, which verifies the health of the Canarytrace toolset and Elasticsearch.

```bash title="The Listener Agent start internal checks"
    __    _      __                      
   / /   (______/ /____  ____  ___  _____
  / /   / / ___/ __/ _ \/ __ \/ _ \/ ___/
 / /___/ (__  / /_/  __/ / / /  __/ /    
/_____/_/____/\__/\___/_/ /_/\___/_/     
                                         
Listener agent: 1 https://canarytrace.com
Node.js: v18.7.0
Listener:lastRuleCheck used is: 2023-07-18T13:10:05.247Z
Listener:rule-analyzer:start
Elasticsearch health check: green, pending: 0
Elasticsearch nodes: 4, max heap: 53%, max ram: 97%, max disk used 2.37%, max cpu 7%, node with highest heap tiebreaker-0000000018
Canarytrace health check: running
Canarytrace lifecycle: OK
DataManager exist: OK
Datamanager: last run before 13 hours
...
```

The second phase, marked as the analysis phase, is when the Listener Agent loads and evaluates rules, and prepares data for the final phase, known as the overview phase. During the analysis phase, rules are evaluated, notifications for critical problems are sent out, and new errors are added to the error queue.

```bash title="The Listener Agent evaluate rules"
...
Listener: load internal rules.
Listener: loaded 20x internal rules from ./rules/internal.yaml
Listener: load custom rules from ./rules/custom.yaml
Listener: loaded 1x custom rules.
Listener: load RUM rules from ./rules/rum.yaml
Listener: loaded 10x RUM rules.
Listener agent: evaluate 31 rules
---------------------------------

Load time needs improvement, filter: (loadEventEnd gte 3000),(loadEventEnd lt 5000),
analyzers: incidents 0

Load time is poor, filter: (loadEventEnd gte 5000),
analyzers: incidents 0
...
```

In this phase, the Listener Agent evaluates the error queue, for instance, updating the status of the errors or closing old errors.

```bash title="The Listener Agent evaluate incidents"
...
errors-queue:queue size 1
errors-queue:closing: 1 incidents older 30 minutes.
errors-queue:how long:9min: Performance score needs improvement
errors-queue:not closed
...
```
The Overview phase is the final phase of the Listener Agent. In this phase, the Listener Agent generates reports and sends them to the configured reporters. It evaluates numerous parameters such as the age of errors and their score, available reporters, appropriate time for sending the report, sentence preparation for improved explanation, and so on.

```bash title="The Listener Agent create reports"
...
Listener:overview:lastEmergencyOverview: check after 60 minutes
Listener:overview:lastEmergencyOverview: last emergency check has taken place before 50 minutes
Listener:overview:stage1: check after 180 minutes
Listener:overview:stage1: stage1 check has taken place before 170 minutes

-------------------------------
Listener aget: uuid: d55bdef17866afdb8e62fddfca3c7a98
Start: Tue Jul 18 13:20:01 UTC 2023
End: Tue Jul 18 13:20:09 UTC 2023
...
```
## Score

## Internal checks

## Rules

## Reporters

## Configuration

## Elasticsearch




import FeedbackFooter from '../../src/components/FeedbackFooter';

<FeedbackFooter />

Commit message:

docs/listener/agent.mdx: k8s deployment

docs/listener/agent.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
description: Listener is next tool in Canarytrace toolset for analyzing data from Canarytrace RUM and Canarytrace Synthetic
title: Listener Agent
tags:
  - Listener
  - Listener Agent
---

# Listener Agent

The Listener Agent is a Dockerized component that evaluates data from Canarytrace [RUM](../rum/overview) and Canarytrace Synthetic, which are stored in Elasticsearch.

The Listener Agent works in phases:

1. First phase, internal checks: The Listener Agent contains built-in internal checks which i verify that Canarytrace is functioning correctly, that Elasticsearch is available, and that it's possible to store data in Elasticsearch.

2. Second phase, rule checking: The Listener Agent contains built-in rules, like a checklist for the quality of the web application. The Listener Agent checks stored data against these rules very frequently. Thanks to these rules, you do not need know how the web application works properly.

3. Third phase, reporting: All information about the work of the Listener Agent and violations of rules are stored in an Elasticsearch index called "events", and notifications are sent through reporters. This phase also includes bug watchers and creates an overview.

import LicenseInfo from '../../src/components/LicenseInfo';

<LicenseInfo app="Canarytrace Listener" />


## Docker image

The Listener Agent is distributed as a [Docker](https://quay.io/repository/canarytrace/listener-agent?tab=tags) image and we recommend running it in a Kubernetes cluster.


:::tip Please always use a latest Docker image
- List of Docker image tags https://quay.io/repository/canarytrace/listener-agent?tab=tags
:::

The [Docker](https://quay.io/repository/canarytrace/listener-agent?tab=tags) image contains not only the Listener engine itself but also built-in rules and the necessary Kubernetes deployment objects.

Upon launching the Docker image with the Listener Agent, the creation of service indices in Elasticsearch happens automatically, followed by the start of individual phases. Once the final phase ends, the Docker image stops and restarts. Thanks to this, the Listener Agent evaluates current data from Canarytrace RUM and Canarytrace Synthetic.

For optimal operation, it's necessary to run the Listener Agent in a Kubernetes cluster. More information can be found in the [Kubernetes](#kubernetes) section.


## Kubernetes

To run the Listener Agent, you need a Kubernetes deployment that includes the Docker image, resources, configurations, and additional parameters. We provide a deployment that you can use as is or modify to your preferences.

### Resources

- To deploy the Listener Agent Server on Kubernetes, several requirements need to be met, including specifying the appropriate resource requests and limits.
- In most cases, one instance of the Listener Agent will be sufficient.

|Resources|CPU Request|CPU Limits|Memory requests|Memory limits|
|-|-|-|-|-|
|One instance of the Listener Agent|`50m`|`200m`|`50Mi`|`300Mi`|


### Deployment

All deployment objects necessary for running the RUM Server are packaged and distributed inside the Docker image. This includes any required configuration files, scripts, and dependencies needed for the deployment process.

#### Download the deployments scripts from the Docker image

```bash title="Download deployments scripts from docker image"
docker run --rm -it --entrypoint /bin/mv -v $(pwd):/k8s quay.io/canarytrace/listener-agent:1.42 /opt/canary-listener/k8s/ /k8s/
```

```bash title="Print directory k8s"
ls -lah k8s 
-rw-r--r--@ 1 rdpanek  staff   788B 31 pro  2022 config-custom-rules.yaml
-rw-r--r--@ 1 rdpanek  staff   9,8K 31 pro  2022 config-internal-rules.yaml
-rw-r--r--@ 1 rdpanek  staff   4,7K 31 pro  2022 config-rum-rules.yaml
-rw-r--r--@ 1 rdpanek  staff   3,9K 31 pro  2022 deployment.yaml
-rw-r--r--@ 1 rdpanek  staff   357B 31 pro  2022 secret.yml
```

- `k8s/config-rum-rules.yaml` - contains configuration of rules for [Canarytrace RUM](../rum/rumClient), more information in the [Rules](#rules) section.
- `k8s/config-internal-rules.yaml` - contains configuration of internal rules for Canarytrace Synthetic, more information in the [Rules](#rules) section.
- `k8s/config-custom-rules.yaml` - contains configuration of your custom business rules. More information in the [Rules](#rules) section.
- `k8s/secret.yaml` - contains Listener configuration, more information in the [Configuration](#configuration) section.
- `k8s/listener.yaml` - contains deployment of Listener Agent, more information in the [Configuration](#configuration) section.

Before deploying the Listener Agent to your Kubernetes cluster, please:
- update the `secret.yaml` and `listener.yaml` files and their configurations.
- additionally, you may choose to edit the rules in one or more of these files:" `k8s/config-custom-rules.yaml`, `k8s/config-internal-rules.yaml`, and `k8s/config-rum-rules.yaml`. Learn more about the syntax of the rules in the [Rules](#rules) section.

:::tip
Configuration files with rules are in the YAML format. You don't need to edit these files or values if the default configuration meets your requirements.
:::


Deploy these objects to Kubernetes in this order:

1. `k8s/secret.yaml`
2. `k8s/config-custom-rules.yaml`
3. `k8s/config-internal-rules.yaml`
4. `k8s/config-rum-rules.yaml`
5. `k8s/deployment.yaml`

All Kubernetes objects can be deployed using the `kubectl -n` command, followed by the name of the namespace and the `create` option. For example, to deploy a `secret.yaml` file, you would use the command `kubectl -n canarytrace create -f secret.yaml`.

### Check the deployment

Please check, that the Canarytrace Listerer Agent is deployed and running.

Secrects contains configuration of Listener Agent such as connection to Elasticsearch, Slack webhook, etc. More information in the [Configuration](#configuration) section.
```bash title="Check Secrects"
kubectl -n canarytrace get secrets

// result
NAME                               TYPE                                  DATA   AGE
listener-agent-secret              Opaque                                10     451d
```


ConfigMaps contains configuration of rules for [Canarytrace RUM](../rum/rumClient), more information in the [Rules](#rules) section.
```bash title="Check ConfigMaps"
kubectl -n canarytrace get configmaps

// result
NAME                            DATA   AGE
listener-agent-custom-rules     1      213d
listener-agent-internal-rules   1      213d
listener-agent-rum-rules        1      213d
```

The CronJob configuration includes settings for the Listener Agent, such as the version of the Docker image and Kubernetes deployment settings, etc. More information can be found in the [Configuration](#configuration) section.
Thanks to [CronJob](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/cron-jobs/), the Listener Agent starts every 10 minutes to check new data from Canarytrace RUM and Canarytrace Synthetic. The ten-minute interval is a default value, which can be modified in the `k8s/deployment.yaml` file.
```bash title="Check CronJobs"
kubectl -n canarytrace get cronjob

// result
NAME                          SCHEDULE       SUSPEND   ACTIVE   LAST SCHEDULE   AGE
listener-agent                */10 * * * *   False     0        6m15s           199d
```

Pods run the Listener Agent instances. Every 10 minutes, the CronJob creates a [Pod](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod/) with the Listener Agent.
But in this example, you see three Pods of the Listener Agent. This means that you're seeing the three most recent instances of the Listener Agent. Therefore, the latest run was 7 minutes ago, the previous run was 17 minutes ago and the first run was 26 minutes ago. 

You can read logs from the three most recent instances of the Listener Agent. More information can be found in the [Log](#log) section.
```bash title="Check Pods"
kubectl -n canarytrace get pods

// result
NAME                                         READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
listener-agent-28161260-grp2f                0/1     Completed   0          27m
listener-agent-28161270-84pwc                0/1     Completed   0          17m
listener-agent-28161280-2d6df                0/1     Completed   0          7m21s
```

In other cases, you may see a state of pods where one of them has the STATUS `Running`. This means that the Listener Agent is currently executing.
```bash title="Check Pods with running the Listener Agent"
kubectl -n canarytrace get pods

// result
NAME                                         READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
listener-agent-28161400-f4sjv                0/1     Completed   0          30m
listener-agent-28161410-8tnvn                0/1     Completed   0          20m
listener-agent-28161420-l94gv                0/1     Completed   0          10m
listener-agent-28161430-bnrkl                1/1     Running     0          2s
```

### Log

You can access the log of the Listener Agent from the three most recent instances. To retrieve these logs, you'll need to know the name of the Pod. You can determine the Pod's name from the previous step.


With this Kubernetes command `logs`, you will be able to see the log.
```bash title="Get logs"
kubectl -n canarytrace logs listener-agent-28161280-2d6df
```

The first phase is the initiation of internal checks. The Listener Agent examines the health of Elasticsearch, Canarytrace RUM, and Canarytrace Synthetic.

The internal checks are the most important phase, which verifies the health of the Canarytrace toolset and Elasticsearch.

```bash title="The Listener Agent start internal checks"
    __    _      __                      
   / /   (______/ /____  ____  ___  _____
  / /   / / ___/ __/ _ \/ __ \/ _ \/ ___/
 / /___/ (__  / /_/  __/ / / /  __/ /    
/_____/_/____/\__/\___/_/ /_/\___/_/     
                                         
Listener agent: 1 https://canarytrace.com
Node.js: v18.7.0
Listener:lastRuleCheck used is: 2023-07-18T13:10:05.247Z
Listener:rule-analyzer:start
Elasticsearch health check: green, pending: 0
Elasticsearch nodes: 4, max heap: 53%, max ram: 97%, max disk used 2.37%, max cpu 7%, node with highest heap tiebreaker-0000000018
Canarytrace health check: running
Canarytrace lifecycle: OK
DataManager exist: OK
Datamanager: last run before 13 hours
...
```

The second phase, marked as the analysis phase, is when the Listener Agent loads and evaluates rules, and prepares data for the final phase, known as the overview phase. During the analysis phase, rules are evaluated, notifications for critical problems are sent out, and new errors are added to the error queue.

```bash title="The Listener Agent evaluate rules"
...
Listener: load internal rules.
Listener: loaded 20x internal rules from ./rules/internal.yaml
Listener: load custom rules from ./rules/custom.yaml
Listener: loaded 1x custom rules.
Listener: load RUM rules from ./rules/rum.yaml
Listener: loaded 10x RUM rules.
Listener agent: evaluate 31 rules
---------------------------------

Load time needs improvement, filter: (loadEventEnd gte 3000),(loadEventEnd lt 5000),
analyzers: incidents 0

Load time is poor, filter: (loadEventEnd gte 5000),
analyzers: incidents 0
...
```

In this phase, the Listener Agent evaluates the error queue, for instance, updating the status of the errors or closing old errors.

```bash title="The Listener Agent evaluate incidents"
...
errors-queue:queue size 1
errors-queue:closing: 1 incidents older 30 minutes.
errors-queue:how long:9min: Performance score needs improvement
errors-queue:not closed
...
```
The Overview phase is the final phase of the Listener Agent. In this phase, the Listener Agent generates reports and sends them to the configured reporters. It evaluates numerous parameters such as the age of errors and their score, available reporters, appropriate time for sending the report, sentence preparation for improved explanation, and so on.

```bash title="The Listener Agent create reports"
...
Listener:overview:lastEmergencyOverview: check after 60 minutes
Listener:overview:lastEmergencyOverview: last emergency check has taken place before 50 minutes
Listener:overview:stage1: check after 180 minutes
Listener:overview:stage1: stage1 check has taken place before 170 minutes

-------------------------------
Listener aget: uuid: d55bdef17866afdb8e62fddfca3c7a98
Start: Tue Jul 18 13:20:01 UTC 2023
End: Tue Jul 18 13:20:09 UTC 2023
...
```
## Score

## Internal checks

## Rules

## Reporters

## Configuration

## Elasticsearch




import FeedbackFooter from '../../src/components/FeedbackFooter';

<FeedbackFooter />
