docs/listener/introduction.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
description: Listener is next tool in Canarytrace toolset for analyzing data from Canarytrace RUM and Canarytrace Synthetic
title: Introduction
tags:
  - Listener
---

# Canarytrace Listener


Web applications can be so complex and bugs may appear very often and in various forms that manual checking through graphs or logs is practically impossible unless we are looking for a specific problem. Some types of bugs are not related to the speed of the web, yet they can be serious for a certain group of devices and their users, or they can become part of a problem that has been overlooked and will become apparent later or during high user traffic.

If you really want to ensure that your web application works correctly and smoothly for your customers - you need to monitor several parameters at once, while also understanding how web applications work.

Canarytrace Listener is the third significant component in the Canarytrace toolset, which is tasked with evaluating data from [Canarytrace RUM](../rum/introduction) and Canarytrace Synthetic.


### Analytics

The Listener has built-in intelligence and knows how web applications should work properly. From the data obtained, it can recognize when your customer had a problem while using your web application.

The Listener includes built-in rules that are very frequently updated. The Listener validates new data from RUM and Synthetic against these rules and evaluates the severity of rule violations.

You don't have to be an expert on web applications, the Listener, which evaluates the quality of your web application continuously, will stand in for you.

You can add your own business rules, for example: How long should it take to log in, or how long should it take to put a product into the shopping cart, or how quickly should a list of items in a category be displayed, etc.

### Experiments

The Listener also tries to autonomously conduct experiments in an effort to improve your website, or to help fix a problem. For example, thanks to data from RUM and Synthetic, the Listener knows that your website contains images. The Listener is aware that there are efficient formats, so if your website contains images in an outdated format, it will download the images, perform optimization, and measure the difference. If the result of the experiment brings improvement, it will send you information about the conducted experiment via email.

The number of experiments in the Listener will gradually increase. You don't have to worry about anything, the Listener conducts the experiments autonomously.


### Alerting

For all its analyses, including experiments and detected anomalies, the Listener adds a severity score. If a serious problem has been found, you'll learn about it immediately. If the issue isn't serious enough to require immediate attention, you'll receive the information later - it should be known, but it also shouldn't be overlooked.

The Listener also tracks the frequency and severity of issues, and whether or not someone is addressing the problem. The Listener aims not to overwhelm your team with constant problem notifications, but instead considers when and through which channel to send the information.

For example, if the server starts returning a ResponseCode 500, you should be informed immediately. However, if the server slightly slows down, you will learn about it in a summary by default, as it's not a show-stopper. Everything can be configured according to your needs, because even a minor server slowdown can be significant for some.


### Integration with Third-Party Tools

The Listener reports all its work into the `c.listener.events-*` index in Elasticsearch. This index is referred to as 'events' and is the index of truth. In this index, you can find records of processed rules, exceeded thresholds, experiment results, and so on.

Thanks to the fact that you can read data from Elasticsearch indices using REST-API, you can utilize other tools that can benefit from the results of the Listener's work. This means that you do not need to set any conditions / evaluate the quality of your web applications in other tools; you just need to read this index.

For example, you can use ZABBIX to create a critical ticket in JIRA. In ZABBIX, you simply set a simple rule: If, in the last 10 minutes, the events index has an evaluation of a rule (logging into the application) and the score is below 50, then create a ticket in JIRA and assign it to a team to resolve.


## Canarytrace Listener components


### Listener Agent

### Listener DM

### Listener AD

### Listener UI

import FeedbackFooter from '../../src/components/FeedbackFooter';

<FeedbackFooter />

Commit message:

docs/listener/introduction.mdx: complete

docs/listener/introduction.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
description: Listener is next tool in Canarytrace toolset for analyzing data from Canarytrace RUM and Canarytrace Synthetic
title: Introduction
tags:
  - Listener
---

# Canarytrace Listener


Web applications can be so complex and bugs may appear very often and in various forms that manual checking through graphs or logs is practically impossible unless we are looking for a specific problem. Some types of bugs are not related to the speed of the web, yet they can be serious for a certain group of devices and their users, or they can become part of a problem that has been overlooked and will become apparent later or during high user traffic.

If you really want to ensure that your web application works correctly and smoothly for your customers - you need to monitor several parameters at once, while also understanding how web applications work.

Canarytrace Listener is the third significant component in the Canarytrace toolset, which is tasked with evaluating data from [Canarytrace RUM](../rum/introduction) and Canarytrace Synthetic.


### Analytics

The Listener has built-in intelligence and knows how web applications should work properly. From the data obtained, it can recognize when your customer had a problem while using your web application.

The Listener includes built-in rules that are very frequently updated. The Listener validates new data from RUM and Synthetic against these rules and evaluates the severity of rule violations.

You don't have to be an expert on web applications, the Listener, which evaluates the quality of your web application continuously, will stand in for you.

You can add your own business rules, for example: How long should it take to log in, or how long should it take to put a product into the shopping cart, or how quickly should a list of items in a category be displayed, etc.

### Experiments

The Listener also tries to autonomously conduct experiments in an effort to improve your website, or to help fix a problem. For example, thanks to data from RUM and Synthetic, the Listener knows that your website contains images. The Listener is aware that there are efficient formats, so if your website contains images in an outdated format, it will download the images, perform optimization, and measure the difference. If the result of the experiment brings improvement, it will send you information about the conducted experiment via email.

The number of experiments in the Listener will gradually increase. You don't have to worry about anything, the Listener conducts the experiments autonomously.


### Alerting

For all its analyses, including experiments and detected anomalies, the Listener adds a severity score. If a serious problem has been found, you'll learn about it immediately. If the issue isn't serious enough to require immediate attention, you'll receive the information later - it should be known, but it also shouldn't be overlooked.

The Listener also tracks the frequency and severity of issues, and whether or not someone is addressing the problem. The Listener aims not to overwhelm your team with constant problem notifications, but instead considers when and through which channel to send the information.

For example, if the server starts returning a ResponseCode 500, you should be informed immediately. However, if the server slightly slows down, you will learn about it in a summary by default, as it's not a show-stopper. Everything can be configured according to your needs, because even a minor server slowdown can be significant for some.


### Integration with Third-Party Tools

The Listener reports all its work into the `c.listener.events-*` index in Elasticsearch. This index is referred to as 'events' and is the index of truth. In this index, you can find records of processed rules, exceeded thresholds, experiment results, and so on.

Thanks to the fact that you can read data from Elasticsearch indices using REST-API, you can utilize other tools that can benefit from the results of the Listener's work. This means that you do not need to set any conditions / evaluate the quality of your web applications in other tools; you just need to read this index.

For example, you can use ZABBIX to create a critical ticket in JIRA. In ZABBIX, you simply set a simple rule: If, in the last 10 minutes, the events index has an evaluation of a rule (logging into the application) and the score is below 50, then create a ticket in JIRA and assign it to a team to resolve.


## Canarytrace Listener components

The Listener is component-based, so you can start only with the [Listener Agent](#listener-agent) and later add other components such as [DM](#listener-dm), [UI](#listener-ui), and [AD](#listener-ad) based on your requirements. Thanks to this approach, your start with the Listener is easy. Each component works independently from the others, and updates are incremental.

Each component is distributed via a Docker image for deployment into Kubernetes.

### Listener Agent

The Listener Agent is the most important component. It contains built-in rules that evaluate data from [Canarytrace RUM](../rum/introduction) and Canarytrace Synthetic, then stores the results into an event index in Elasticsearch. It calculates the score of defects, sends reports, and finally, includes experiments.

You must start with the Listener Agent the first time.

### Listener DM

The Data Management component removes older data from Elasticsearch and creates long-term indices with trend data. For example, an Elasticsearch index with RUM metrics contains a lot of data for immediate review, but these data consume significant storage and detailed data becomes less interesting after one week. You can create a long-term index for this data that will contain only the types of devices, browsers, FPS, and Duration.


### Listener AD

The Anomaly Detection component brings smarter quality guardianship of your web application based on usual and observed behavior. For example, the duration of the web application loading time is volatile and depends on the behavior and number of your visitors. Therefore, you cannot set a certain threshold, for instance, that loading a page must always take 1.5s. In the real world, the loading time of your web application will be shorter with fewer visitors and longer during peak times.

A shorter load time with fewer visitors is correct, but a longer load time during peak times is also correct. Therefore, the Listener Anomaly Detection learns from Canarytrace RUM and Canarytrace Synthetic what is normal and when it is normal. Listener Anomaly Detection is a learning model with performance metrics that are typically for your web application during a week.

When an anomaly is detected, you will be informed. Performance metrics are not the only domain for our Listener Anomaly Detection. In the future, Listener AD will evaluate anomalies in, for example, response codes of your services and more. Why not? Thanks to Canarytrace Synthetic and Canarytrace RUM, the Listener knows all the technical parameters of your web application.

This component is under construction.


### Listener UI

Listener UI is a new interface for Listener. It is a web application that allows for configuration and evaluation of information from Canarytrace Synthetic, Canarytrace RUM, Listener AD, and experiments. This component provides new visualizations for a thorough understanding of your web application's health and customer satisfaction.

This component is under construction.

import FeedbackFooter from '../../src/components/FeedbackFooter';

<FeedbackFooter />
